>> Jen Kramer: All right so
then we're gonna move on here to Nesting.
So if you open up Chapter 13.
>> Jen Kramer: And I believe,
what have I go going on here this time?
Okay, so
this time what I've done is the following,
I have the same fine lit web page
I've been working with so far.
And inside of my article,
I have a series of little boxes,
which I'd like to display all
next to each other, okay?
So there's a couple of ways
that you could code this.
You could try coding this just with
Flex Box using these asides here,
these three asides in white.
You could code them with Flex Box
inside of this particular article.
That would be a really
great way of doing things.
Then Flex Box would control
however many articles there were.
They would wrap up onto other lines.
They would adjust to
the appropriate widths and
whatever parameters that
you happen to set up.
And what I'm talking about when I
say lay this out with Flex Box.
I'm talking about the way that we laid
out our image gallery with Flex Box,
not the Flex Box grid system.
There's no reason to use the Flex Box grid
system if you're working with CSS grid,
just work with CSS grid, okay?
But in the interest of showing you
exactly how a nested grid would work.
If that winds up being something
that is important to you,
I will show you that now.
The disadvantage here to the CSS
grid portion of this is that
depending on what kind of crazy layout
you're doing in the CSS grid it may or
may not repeat adequately.
So if you think about the Mondrian
painting we laid out earlier,
it would be pretty hard to repeat that for
another bunch of these articles.
>> Jen Kramer: And Flex Box,
of course, you get what you got.
It's gonna be a series of these
boxes one after the other.
But I'm just, right now just demonstrating
to you how a nested grid system will work.
So the HTML is exactly the same as
what we have been working with before.
We're gonna go to the CSS.
>> Jen Kramer: And
what I've done here is the following, so
remember that there's a parent
child relationship in grid.
You have the grid container and
you have the grid items.
So the grid container its direct
descendants are all grid items.
Anything inside of the grid items
is unaffected by gri, right?
So if you look at your HTML here, we have
a wrapper which is our grid container.
Its children are the header and
the article, right?
And the aside, so
those are all grid items.
But inside of the article itself, I now
have this div with a class of nested, and
three asides inside of that.
None of those have any grid properties
associated with them at all, because that
as far as the inheritance goes from the
wrapper to it's children and that's it.
So what we need to do here is
with this div class of nested,
we're gonna declare that to be
the next grid container and
the aasides become the grid items,
make sense?
Okay, so to do that,
>> Jen Kramer: Here
we'll go ahead and put in another class.
I'm gonna put it in right
before my media query here.
And I'm gonna call this the nested class,
which you saw was there inside of the div.
And just as we typically do,
we can just say display grid,
grid-gap, whatever you wanna do.
I said 1m, you could, of course,
pick whatever you want.
>> Jen Kramer: And
I added here also grid-template-columns,
>> Jen Kramer: Auto.
And the reason I did that is because I'm
gonna call out grid template columns in
the media queries later, otherwise I would
just not even declare it here, okay?
Then inside of the media queries,
>> Jen Kramer: So
in this first media query here.
So here's what I did.
We have a bunch of asides going on here.
So there's a series of
asides that are here, okay?
There's also an aside
over here on the outside.
You could do funky things with,
whatever, nth child or
nth of type, and so
forth, to select these.
My sense was it would be simpler for a lot
of people if I just declare a class here.
So I'm gonna declare this last aside
here that's on line 33 in my HTML.
I'm gonna call that class of sidebar
because I want its behavior to be
very different than the asides that
I'm working with inside of here.
>> Jen Kramer: And consequently, inside of
my media queries where you see the side
currently, I'm gonna change that
to .side bar in both locations.
>> Jen Kramer: Otherwise what would happen
is that the styles that are here for
the aside, the generic HTML class
would apply also to those asides
that are going to be inside of
the article and we don't want that.
So, that was just a switch we had to make
because we're adding this extra code.
Now the actual new code that
we're going to add is this,
nested is my class inside
of the media query,
and I can then say grid-template-columns:
repeat (3, 1fr), okay?
>> Jen Kramer: So does that make sense?
Okay, and if we now take a look
at our web page and refresh.
There's our three asides all side by side,
everything looks great.
And when I crunch the page down,
>> Jen Kramer: At some point
along the way, those will all stack and
there they go, okay.
>> Jen Kramer: All right.
>> Jen Kramer: So just to refresh again,
what we did was we declared div with
a class of nested becomes
our grid container.
The asides there inside of that
become our grid items, and
that is then reflected inside of our CSS.
So here's our nested is our grid container
declared here outside of
the media queries, and then
inside the media queries we can declare
exactly how we want those to display.
In this case, at
the larger screen sizes we'd like to
have three columns of equal size.
But mobile dimensions we are just
gonna stack them on top of each other.